[
"INTRODUCTION TO PHYSICS"
,""
,"<h3>1.1 WHAT IS PHYSICS?</h3>The nature around us is colourful and diverse. It contains phenomena of large varieties. The winds, the sands, the waters, the planets, the rainbow, heating of objects on rubbing, the function of a human body, the energy coming from the sun and the nucleus …… there are a large number of objects and events taking place around us.<br><br>Physics is the study of nature and its laws. We expect that all these different events in nature take place according to some basic laws and revealing these laws of nature from the observed events is physics. For example, the orbiting of the moon around the earth, falling of an apple from a tree and tides in a sea on a full moon night can all be explained if we know the Newton’s law of gravitation and Newton’s laws of motion. Physics is concerned with the basic rules which are applicable to all domains of life. Understanding of physics, therefore, leads to applications in many fields including bio and medical sciences.<br><br>The great physicist Dr R. P. Feynman has given a wonderful description of what is &quot;understanding the nature&quot;. Suppose we do not know the rules of chess but are allowed to watch the moves of the players. If we watch the game for a long time, we may make out some of the rules. With the knowledge of these rules we may try to understand why a player played a particular move. However, this may be a very difficult task. Even if we know all the rules of chess, it is not so simple to understand all the complications of a game in a given situation and predict the correct move. Knowing the basic rules is, however, the minimum requirement if any progress is to be made.<br><br>One may guess at a wrong rule by partially watching the game. The experienced player may make use of a rule for the first time and the observer of the game may get surprised. Because of the new move some of the rules guessed at may prove to be wrong and the observer will frame new rules.Physics goes the same way. The nature around us is like a big chess game played by Nature. The events in the nature are like the moves of the great game. We are allowed to watch the events of nature and guess at the basic rules according to which the events take place. We may come across new events which do not follow the rules guessed earlier and we may have to declare the old rules inapplicable or wrong and discover new rules.<br><br>Since physics is the study of nature, it is real. No one has been given the authority to frame the rules of physics. We only discover the rules that are operating in nature. Aryabhat, Newton, Einstein or Feynman are great physicists because from the observations available at that time, they could guess and frame the laws of physics which explained these observations in a convincing way. But there can be a new phenomenon any day and if the rules discovered by the great scientists are not able to explain this phenomenon, no one will hesitate to change these rules.<h3>1.2 PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS</h3>"
,"Concept of Physics Vol 1 By H.C. Verma"
]
